EAT-0881147.

Ortiz compared the number to the receipt. Park read it into both records.

Only then did Grant put on grounded antistatic gloves.

She lifted the board by its edges and placed it on the MPD examination mat. The package remained open beside Ortiz. Custody had not moved with Grant’s hands. Access and possession were different acts, and the camera could see both.

Grant photographed the board’s front, back, contacts, scrape, secure-element housing, and visible tamper features. She checked the reader adapter against the board’s declared evidence-mode contacts. The signing contacts remained physically blocked by the DCIS adapter.

Before connection, she recorded the board’s exterior state and the workstation’s counter baseline.

Then she seated the board.

The reader detected power at the passive evidence interface. No authentication prompt appeared.

DECLARED DEVICE MODE: EVIDENCE READ
PRIVATE-KEY OPERATIONS: UNAVAILABLE
MONOTONIC COUNTER: QUERY ONLY

Grant stopped anyway.

She compared the three lines to the DCIS reader policy and the board’s declared metadata printed in the package record. The phrase QUERY ONLY mattered. If the tool had offered an active challenge or an unlock function, the examination would have ended before the first event loaded.

She photographed the state and told Ortiz why she was continuing.

The first read exposed hardware identity, certificate identity, secure-element status, and a digest of the monotonic signing history. Grant copied the examiner-generated tool log to the blank DCIS medium. Nothing copied from the board except the fields authorized in the written scope.

The secure element reported no reset condition and no unexplained counter discontinuity.

That did not prove the device had never been attacked. It established that the history she was about to compare was internally continuous under the board’s own protected state.

Grant loaded the preserved deployment-reference fields.

The board carried a partial timestamp and certificate reference associated with the original event attributed to Thorne’s token. The reference pointed to his employee identity. The event table did not contain a corresponding secure-element signing transition at that time.

Grant ran the query again without changing filters.

Same result.

She disconnected the reader, recorded the final state, restarted the reader from its verified image, repeated the self-test, and reconnected the board through the same passive path.

The deployment reference appeared again.

The physical signing event did not.

Grant felt no satisfaction. Absence was dangerous evidence. It invited every interested person to convert a bounded mismatch into a complete theory.

She opened the later history because the written question required comparison, not because O’Donnell had asked for a favorable contrast.

Two later events occupied the sequence after the disputed deployment reference. The first corresponded to the emergency quarantine-gate release. The second corresponded to provenance reconciliation. Both carried secure-element transitions, local challenge-response records, hardware time, and the release states preserved in the board’s own evidence metadata.

The physical board had signed those acts.

The original attributed deployment had not produced the same kind of event.

Grant checked whether the later records could be display artifacts generated from the preserved deployment reference. Their event digests differed. Their counter transitions were sequential. Their local release records carried separate challenge identifiers. The original reference contained none of those features.

The distinction survived a second read.

Behind the glass, O’Donnell could not see the fields at this distance. She could see Grant stop at the later events.

Grant looked toward her.

The former analyst’s expression did not change. Her restrained left hand had closed around the edge of the transport harness. She already understood what the pause meant.

The same result that weakened the government’s easiest explanation of the original deployment strengthened a different government case.

Thorne had not disappeared into the category of hostage.

The board showed that he later opened the gate and authenticated the provenance action through the physical token. Those acts might be justified, necessary, unlawful, or all three under different authorities. Grant’s job was not to choose among them.

Her job was to make them impossible to erase.

She returned to the event table and tested the one false-positive explanation available within the package: that the original event predated the monotonic history because the board had been initialized later. The device manufacturing and certificate-enrollment state preceded the disputed deployment reference. Later counter continuity began from an earlier protected baseline, not from a post-event reset.

No unexplained reset appeared.

Grant documented the control and its limit. The board’s history contradicted ordinary physical use of this secure element at the attributed deployment time. It did not exclude another token, a mirrored workstation identity, a replayed credential, a compromised service, or conduct by Thorne that had never required this board.

At 08:52:41, an intake phone outside the isolated room began flashing. Grant could not hear it through the sealed door. Ortiz could see the caller label through the glass.

APEX COUNSEL.

He did not answer inside the examination room.

Grant completed the final authorized read, captured the tool-state screenshots, and compared the two generated logs. The authorized fields matched. The board’s monotonic counter had not changed from the pre-examination value. No signing event had been created. No private-key interface had become available.

She disconnected the board.

The reader’s final screen showed:

SOURCE DEVICE: DISCONNECTED
WRITE ATTEMPTS: 0
PRIVATE-KEY OPERATIONS: 0
MONOTONIC TRANSITIONS CREATED: 0

Grant photographed it and had Park read the state into the witness record.

Only after the board was electrically isolated did Grant step back from the table.

“What did you find?” Ortiz asked.

Grant looked at the open package, the removed seal in its sleeve, and the board on the MPD mat.

“A preliminary contradiction,” she said. “And a later admission by the hardware.”

Ortiz’s expression tightened. “Admission by whom?”

“The hardware,” Grant repeated. “Not the man.”

She had corrected the first overclaim before leaving the room.

Secure MPD Evidence Intake
08:56:30 Eastern Daylight Time
18:26:30 Indian Standard Time

Julie knew the result from Grant’s first sentence.

She also knew it was not enough.

Grant entered the observation alcove carrying no evidence. The board remained inside the examination room on the MPD surface with Ortiz and Park. Through the glass, Julie could see it under the evidence camera, disconnected and motionless.

Grant held an examiner’s worksheet and the sealed DCIS log medium.

“The board’s protected history contains no physical signing event corresponding to the original deployment reference preserved on that board,” she said. “The same history contains internally consistent physical signing events for the later gate release and provenance reconciliation.”

Julie’s left hand remained locked to the harness. “Counter unchanged?”

“Pre- and post-examination values match. Zero signing operations. Zero writes.”

“Reset or discontinuity?”

“None exposed in the authorized fields.”

The answer opened the thought Julie had carried since the cutout. Elias’s workstation identity had been made to look like the physical token. The board did not show the act.

Grant cut it off before Julie spoke.

“I did not find who created the alternate identity path. I did not authenticate a workstation record. I did not examine the case, recovery cartridge, paper log, or field module. I did not prove Thorne’s innocence.”

“I know.”

“Say the part you don’t like.”

